# What is python ?

_If you are starting your programming journey, you've probeably heared:_

> Learn Python. It’s beginner-friendly.

## But what exactly is Python? 

**To understand Python clearly, we first need to understand six simple concepts:**

- Language 
- Programming
- Programming Language
- Interpreter
- Application
- Software

_Let’s break everything down step by step_

---

### What Is Language?              
    
> Language is a way people communicate using words and grammar to share ideas, thoughts, feelings and **giving instructions** to someone by speaking, **writing**, or using signs.

Mean's we have **Words**, **grammar**

---

### What Is Programming?

**Giving instructions** to a computer to perform tasks.

_Computers are powerful, but they don’t think._
_They only follow instructions exactly as written._

**For example:**

_If you tell a computer:_

    Add 5 and 3

_It will calculate and give you:_

    8

**Programming is simply writing such step-by-step instructions.**

_Think of it like giving a recipe to a chef._
_If the instructions are clear, the result will be correct._

---

### What Is a Programming Language?

Now here’s something important:

    Computers understand only binary (0s and 1s).
Humans don’t speak binary. So we need a bridge between humans and computers.

    That bridge is called a: Programming Language

>A programming language allows humans to **write instructions** in a readable way, which can then be converted into machine language.

Some popular programming languages are:

- Python
- Java
- c
- c++
- C#

**Python is one of these languages — and it is known for being simple and readable.**

---

### What is interpreter?

> An interpreter is a software program that translates and executes code written in a high-level programming language, line by line. It converts the code into machine language (binary – 0s and 1s) so the computer can understand and perform the instructions.

An interpreter is a person who helps two people communicate when they speak different languages.

If Person A speaks English and Person B speaks Spanish, they may not understand each other. The interpreter listens to Person A, translates the message into Spanish for Person B, and then translates Person B’s reply back into English. In this way, the interpreter acts as a mediator, making sure both sides understand each other clearly.

In the same way, a programming language like Python needs an interpreter to communicate with the computer. Humans write code in Python (which is easy for us to understand), but computers only understand binary (0s and 1s).

The Python interpreter reads the Python code line by line, converts it into machine-level instructions (binary), and then the computer executes those instructions to produce the output.

So just like a human interpreter translates between two languages, the Python interpreter translates human-written code into a language the computer understands and then shows the result as output.



### What Is an Application?

>An application (app) is a program designed to help users perform specific tasks.

Examples of applications:

- Calculator
- WhatsApp
- Instagram
- Web browsers
- Microsoft Word

**Every app you use was built using one or more programming languages like Python, Java, etc.**

---

### What Is Software?

> Software is a collection of programs that run on a computer.

There are two main types:

- System Software
    * Operating systems like Microsoft Windows
    * macOS
    * Linux

- Application Software
    * Browsers
    * Games
    * Office tools
    * Editing software

**Applications are a type of software.**

---

### So… What Is Python?

Now combine everything:

- Language have **Words**, **grammar**
- Programming = **Writing instructions**
- Programming Language = **Way to write instructions and have own _keywords_ & _Syntax_**
- Interpreter = **Tool to convert programming language in Binary (0 or 1)**
- Application = **Program for users**
- Software = **Collection of programs**

**Python is:**

>A programming language used to create applications and software.

**It helps humans write instructions in a simple way so computers can understand and execute them.**



## How Python Works (Behind the Scenes)

> Python is an interpreted language.

**That means it uses something called an interpreter to run your code.**

Here’s the simple process:

- Step 1 -> **You Write Code**
    `print("Hello, World!")`
- Step 2 -> **Python Interpreter Reads It**
    Python converts your code into a format the computer understands.
- Step 3 -> **Computer Executes It**
    The output appears:
    `Hello, World!`

That’s it!

# Final Simple Definition

> Python is a beginner-friendly programming language used to build applications and software. It works by converting human-readable instructions into machine-executable code using python interpreter.

    What’s Next?

    - Installing Python
    - Running your first Python program

